---
title: Basic Configuration
toc: true
menu: Basic Configuration
order: 20
---

# XMPP Domains

## Host Names

`ejabberd` supports managing several independent XMPP domains on a
single ejabberd instance, using a feature called virtual hosting.

The option [hosts](../toplevel/#hosts)
 defines a list containing one or more domains that
`ejabberd` will serve.

Of course, the `hosts` list can contain just one domain if you do not
want to host multiple XMPP domains on the same instance.

Examples:

-   Serving one domain:


		hosts: [example.org]

-   Serving three domains:


		hosts:
		  - example.net
		  - example.com
		  - jabber.somesite.org

## Virtual Hosting

When managing several XMPP domains in a single instance, those domains
are truly independent. It means they can even have different
configuration parameters.

Options can be defined separately for every virtual host using the
[host_config](../toplevel/#host-config) option.

Examples:

-   Domain `example.net` is using the internal authentication method
	while domain `example.com` is using the LDAP server running on the
	domain `localhost` to perform authentication:


		host_config:
		  example.net:
		    auth_method: internal
		  example.com:
		    auth_method: ldap
		    ldap_servers:
		      - localhost
		    ldap_uids:
		      - uid
		    ldap_rootdn: "dc=localdomain"
		    ldap_rootdn: "dc=example,dc=com"
		    ldap_password: ""

-   Domain `example.net` is using SQL to perform authentication while
	domain `example.com` is using the LDAP servers running on the
	domains `localhost` and `otherhost`:


		host_config:
		  example.net:
		    auth_method: sql
		    sql_type: odbc
		    sql_server: "DSN=ejabberd;UID=ejabberd;PWD=ejabberd"
		  example.com:
		    auth_method: ldap
		    ldap_servers:
		      - localhost
		      - otherhost
		    ldap_uids:
		      - uid
		    ldap_rootdn: "dc=localdomain"
		    ldap_rootdn: "dc=example,dc=com"
		    ldap_password: ""

To define specific ejabberd modules in a virtual host, you can define
the global `modules` option with the common modules, and later add
specific modules to certain virtual hosts. To accomplish that, instead
of defining each option in `host_config` use 
[append_host_config](../toplevel/#append-host-config)
with the same syntax.

In this example three virtual hosts have some similar modules, but there
are also other different modules for some specific virtual hosts:


	## This ejabberd server has three vhosts:
	hosts:
	  - one.example.org
	  - two.example.org
	  - three.example.org

	## Configuration of modules that are common to all vhosts
	modules:
	  mod_roster:    {}
	  mod_configure: {}
	  mod_disco:     {}
	  mod_private:   {}
	  mod_time:      {}
	  mod_last:      {}
	  mod_version:   {}

	## Add some modules to vhost one:
	append_host_config:
	  one.example.org:
	    modules:
	      mod_muc:
	        host: conference.one.example.org
	      mod_ping: {}

	## Add a module just to vhost two:
	append_host_config:
	  two.example.org:
	    modules:
	      mod_muc:
	        host: conference.two.example.org

# Logging

`ejabberd` configuration can help a lot by having the right amount of logging set up.

There are several toplevel options to configure logging:

- [loglevel](../toplevel/#loglevel): Verbosity of log files generated by ejabberd.
- [hide_sensitive_log_data](../toplevel/#hide_sensitive_log_data)
    Privacy option to disable logging of IP address or sensitive data.
- [log_rotate_size](../toplevel/#log-rotate-size)
- [log_rotate_count](../toplevel/#log-rotate-count):
    Setting count to N keeps N rotated logs. Setting count to 0
    does not disable rotation, it instead rotates the file and keeps no previous
    versions around. Setting size to X rotate log when it reaches X bytes.
    To disable rotation set the size to 0 and the date to ""
    Date syntax is taken from the syntax newsyslog uses in newsyslog.conf.

Here are some examples:

- $D0     rotate every night at midnight
- $D23    rotate every day at 23:00 hr
- $W0D23  rotate every week on Sunday at 23:00 hr
- $W5D16  rotate every week on Friday at 16:00 hr
- $M1D0   rotate on the first day of every month at midnight
- $M5D6   rotate on every 5th day of the month at 6:00 hr

The values in default configuration file are:

    log_rotate_size: 0
    log_rotate_date: "$D0"
    log_rotate_count: 1


For example:

    hide_sensitive_log_data: false

# Default Language

The option `language` defines the default language of server strings
that can be seen by XMPP clients. If a XMPP client does not support
`xml:lang`, the specified language is used.

The option syntax is:

**`language: Language`**: The default value is `en`. In order to take effect there must be a
translation file `Language.msg` in `ejabberd`’s `msgs` directory.

For example, to set Russian as default language:

	language: ru

The page [Internationalization and Localization](/developer/extending-ejabberd/localization/)
provides more details.

# CAPTCHA

Some `ejabberd` modules can be configured to require a CAPTCHA challenge
on certain actions. If the client does not support CAPTCHA Forms
([`XEP-0158`](http://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0158.html), a web link is
provided so the user can fill the challenge in a web browser.

An example script is provided that generates the image using
ImageMagick’s Convert program.

Note: we do not provide example scripts to support image generation on
Microsoft Windows. Captcha will not work with ejabberd Windows
installer.

The configurable options are:

**`captcha_cmd: Path`**:   Full path to a script that generates the image. The default value
	disables the feature: `undefined`

**`captcha_url: URL`**:  An URL where CAPTCHA requests should be sent.
        You need to configure request_handlers for ejabberd_http listener as well.

Example configuration:


	hosts: [example.org]

	captcha_cmd: /lib/ejabberd/priv/bin/captcha.sh
	captcha_url: http://example.org:5280/captcha
	## captcha_url: https://example.org:443/captcha
	## captcha_url: http://example.com/captcha

	listen:
	  ...
	  -
	    port: 5280
	    module: ejabberd_http
	    request_handlers:
	      /captcha: ejabberd_captcha
	  ...

# ACME

[ACME](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8555) is used to automatically obtain SSL
certificates for the domains served by ejabberd, which means that
certificate requests and renewals are performed to some CA server (aka "ACME server")
in a fully automated mode. The automated mode is enabled by default.
However, since ACME requires HTTP challenges
(i.e. an ACME server will connect to ejabberd server on HTTP port 80 during certificate issuance),
some configuration of ejabberd is still required. Namely, an HTTP listener for `ejabberd_http`
module should be configured on non-TLS port with so called "ACME well known" request handler:

    listen:
      ...
      -
        module: ejabberd_http
        port: 5280
        request_handlers:
          /.well-known/acme-challenge: ejabberd_acme
          ...
      ...

Note that the ACME protocol **requires** challenges to be sent on port 80. Since this is a privileged
port, ejabberd cannot listen on it directly without root privileges. Thus you need some mechanism
to forward port 80 to the port defined by the listener (port 5280 in the example above). There are
several ways to do this: using NAT, setcap (Linux only), or HTTP front-ends (e.g. `sslh`, `nginx`,
`haproxy` and so on). Pick one that fits your installation the best, but **DON'T** run ejabberd as root.

If you see errors in the logs with ACME server problem reports, it's **highly** recommended to change `ca_url`
option of section `acme` to the URL pointing to some staging ACME environment, fix the problems until you obtain
a certificate, and then change the URL back and retry using `request-certificate` ejabberdctl command
(see below). This is needed because ACME servers typically have rate limits, preventing you from requesting
certificates too rapidly and you can get stuck for several hours or even days.
By default, ejabberd uses [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org) authority.
Thus, the default value of `ca_url` option is `https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory`
and the staging URL will be `https://acme-staging-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory`:

    acme:
      ## Staging environment
      ca_url: https://acme-staging-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
      ## Production environment (the default):
      # ca_url: https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory

The automated mode can be disabled by setting `auto` option of section `acme` to `false`:

    acme:
      auto: false
      ...

In this case automated renewals are still enabled, however, in order to request a new certificate,
you need to run `request-certificate` ejabberdctl command:

    $ ejabberdctl request-certificate all

If you only want to request certificates for a subset of the domains, run:

    $ ejabberdctl request-certificate domain.tld,pubsub.domain.tld,server.com,conference.server.com,...

You can view the certificates obtained using ACME:

    $ ejabberdctl list-certificates
    domain.tld /path/to/cert/file1 true
    server.com /path/to/cert/file2 false
    ...

The output is mostly self-explained: every line contains the domain, the corresponding certificate file,
and whether this certificate file is used or not. A certificate might not be used for several reasons:
mostly because ejabberd detects a better certificate (i.e. not expired, or having a longer lifetime).
It's recommended to revoke unused certificates if they are not yet expired (see below).

At any point you can revoke a certificate: pick the certificate file from the listing above and run:

    $ ejabberdctl revoke-certificate /path/to/cert/file

If the commands return errors, consult the log files for details.

## Available ACME options

**`ca_url`**: The ACME directory URL used as an entry point for the ACME server.
   The default value is `https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory` - the
   directory URL of [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org) authority.

**`contact`**: A list of contact addresses (typically emails) where an ACME server
   will send notifications when problems occur. The default is an empty list which
   means an ACME server will send no notices.

**`auto`**: Whether to automatically request certificates for all configured domains
   (that yet have no a certificate) on server start or configuration reload.
   The default is `true`.

**`cert_type`**: A type of a certificate key. Available values are `ec` and `rsa`
   for EC and RSA certificates respectively. It's better to have RSA certificates
   for the purpose of backward compatibility with legacy clients and servers,
   thus the default is `rsa`.

Example:

    acme:
      ca_url: https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
      contact:
        - mailto:admin@domain.tld
        - mailto:bot@domain.tld
      auto: true
      cert_type: rsa


## ACME implementation details

In nutshell, certification requests are performed in two phases. Firstly, ejabberd
creates an account at the ACME server. That is an EC private key. Secondly,
a certificate is requested. In the case of a revocation, no account is
used - only a cerificate in question is needed. All information is stored under
`acme` directory inside spool directory of ejabberd (typically `/var/lib/ejabberd`).
An example content of the directory is the following:
```
$ tree /var/lib/ejabberd
/var/lib/ejabberd
├── acme
│   ├── account.key
│   └── live
│       ├── 251ce180d964e98a2f18b65504df2ab7c55943e2
│       └── 93816a8429ebbaa75574eb3f59d4a806b67d6917
...
```
Here, `account.key` is the EC private key used to identify the ACME account.
You can inspect its content using `openssl` command:
```
$ openssl ec -text -noout -in /var/lib/ejabberd/acme/account.key
```
Obtained certificates are stored under `acme/live` directory.
You can inspect any of the certificates using `openssl` command as well:
```
$ openssl x509 -text -noout -in /var/lib/ejabberd/acme/live/251ce180d964e98a2f18b65504df2ab7c55943e2
```
In the case of errors, you can delete the whole `acme` directory - ejabberd
will recreate its content on next certification request. However, don't delete it
too frequently - usually there is a rate limit on the number of accounts and
certificates an ACME server creates. In particular, for [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org)
the limits are described [here](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/rate-limits).

# Access Rules

*This section describes new ACL syntax introduced in ejabberd
16.06. For old access rule and ACL syntax documentation, please refer
to
[configuration document archive](https://github.com/processone/docs.ejabberd.im/blob/7391ac375fd8253f74214cbffa2bafb140501981/content/admin/guide/configuration.md)*

## ACL Definition

Access control in `ejabberd` is performed via Access Control Lists
(ACLs), using the [acl](../toplevel/#acl) option.
The declarations of ACLs in the configuration file have the
following syntax:

**`acl: { ACLName: { ACLType: ACLValue } }`**

`ACLType: ACLValue` can be one of the following:

**`all`**:   Matches all JIDs. Example:

	    acl:
	      world: all

**`user: Username`**:   Matches the user with the name `Username` on any of the local virtual host.
	Example:


	    acl:
	      admin:
	        user: yozhik

**`user: {Username: Server} | Jid`**:   Matches the user with the JID `Username@Server` and any resource.
	Example:


	    acl:
	      admin:
	        - user:
	            yozhik@example.org
	        - user: peter@example.org

**`server: Server`**:   Matches any JID from server `Server`. Example:


	    acl:
	      exampleorg:
	        server: example.org

**`resource: Resource`**:   Matches any JID with a resource `Resource`. Example:

	    acl:
	      mucklres:
	        resource: muckl

**`shared_group: Groupname`**:   Matches any member of a Shared Roster Group with name `Groupname` in
	the virtual host. Example:


	    acl:
	      techgroupmembers:
	        shared_group: techteam

**`shared_group: {Groupname: Server}`**:   Matches any member of a Shared Roster Group with name `Groupname` in
	the virtual host `Server`. Example:


	    acl:
	      techgroupmembers:
	        shared_group:
	          techteam: example.org

**`ip: Network`**:   Matches any IP address from the `Network`. Example:


	    acl:
	      loopback:
	        ip:
	          - 127.0.0.0/8
	          - "::1"

**`user_regexp: Regexp`**:   Matches any local user with a name that matches `Regexp` on local
	virtual hosts. Example:


	    acl:
	      tests:
	        user_regexp: "^test[0-9]*$"

**`user_regexp: {Regexp: Server} | JidRegexp`**:   Matches any user with a name that matches `Regexp` at server
	`Server`. Example:


	    acl:
	      tests:
	        user_regexp:
	          - "^test1": example.org
	          - "^test2@example.org"

**`server_regexp: Regexp`**:   Matches any JID from the server that matches `Regexp`. Example:


	    acl:
	      icq:
	        server_regexp: "^icq\\."

**`resource_regexp: Regexp`**:   Matches any JID with a resource that matches `Regexp`. Example:


	    acl:
	      icq:
	        resource_regexp: "^laptop\\."

**`node_regexp: {UserRegexp: ServerRegexp}`**:   Matches any user with a name that matches `UserRegexp` at any server
	that matches `ServerRegexp`. Example:


	    acl:
	      yozhik:
	        node_regexp:
	          "^yozhik$": "^example.(com|org)$"

<!-- TODO: explain remaining parameters -->

**`user_glob: Glob`**:

**`user_glob: {Glob: Server}`**:

**`server_glob: Glob`**:

**`resource_glob: Glob`**:

**`node_glob: {UserGlob: ServerGlob}`**:   This is the same as above. However, it uses shell glob patterns
instead of regexp. These patterns can have the following special
characters:

* **`*`**:   matches any string including the null string.

* **`?`**:   matches any single character.

* **`[...]`**:   matches any of the enclosed characters. Character ranges are
	    specified by a pair of characters separated by a `-`. If the
	    first character after `[` is a `!`, any character not enclosed
	    is matched.

The following `ACLName` are pre-defined:

**`all`**:   Matches any JID.

**`none`**:   Matches no JID.

## Access Rights

The [access_rules](../toplevel/#access-rules)
option is used to allow or deny access to different services. The syntax
is:

**`access_rules: { AccessName: { - allow|deny: ACLRule|ACLDefinition } }`**

Each definition may contain arbitrary number of `- allow` or `- deny`
sections, and each section can contain any number of acl rules
(as defined in [previous section](#acl-definition), it recognizes
one additional rule `acl: RuleName` that matches when acl rule
named `RuleName` matches). If no rule or definition is defined, the
rule `all` is applied.

Definition's `- allow` and `- deny` sections are processed in top
to bottom order, and first one for which all listed acl rules matches
is returned as result of access rule. If no rule matches `deny` is returned.

To simplify configuration two shortcut version are available:
`- allow: acl` and `- allow`, example below shows equivalent
definitions where short or long version are used:


    access_rules:
      a_short: admin
      a_long:
        - acl: admin
      b_short:
        - deny: banned
        - allow
      b_long:
        - deny:
          - acl: banned
        - allow:
          - all

If you define specific Access rights in a virtual host, remember that
the globally defined Access rights have precedence over those. This
means that, in case of conflict, the Access granted or denied in the
global server is used and the Access of a virtual host doesn't have
effect.

Example:


      access_rules:
        configure:
          - allow: admin
        something:
          - deny: someone
          - allow
        s2s_banned:
          - deny: problematic_hosts
          - deny:
            - acl: banned_forever
          - deny:
            - ip: 222.111.222.111/32
          - deny:
            - ip: 111.222.111.222/32
          - allow
        xmlrpc_access:
          - allow:
            - user: peter@example.com
          - allow:
            - user: ivone@example.com
          - allow:
            - user: bot@example.com
            - ip: 10.0.0.0/24

The following `AccessName` are pre-defined:

**`all`**:   Always returns the value ‘`allow`’.

**`none`**:   Always returns the value ‘`deny`’.

## Shaper Rules

An entry allowing to declaring shaper to use for matching user/hosts. The syntax
is:

**`shaper_rules: { ShaperRuleName: { - Number|ShaperName: ACLRule|ACLDefinition } }`**

Semantic is similar to that described in [Access Rights](#access-rights) section,
only difference is that instead using `- allow` or `- deny`, name of shaper or number
should be used.

Examples:


    shaper_rules:
      connections_limit:
        - 10:
          - user: peter@example.com
        - 100: admin
        - 5
      download_speed:
        - fast: admin
        - slow: anonymous_users
        - normal
      log_days: 30


## Limiting Opened Sessions with ACL

The special access `max_user_sessions` specifies the maximum number of
sessions (authenticated connections) per user. If a user tries to open
more sessions by using different resources, the first opened session
will be disconnected. The error `session replaced` will be sent to the
disconnected session. The value for this option can be either a number,
or `infinity`. The default value is `infinity`.

The syntax is:

**`{ max_user_sessions: { - Number: ACLRule|ACLDefinition } }`**

This example limits the number of sessions per user to 5 for all users,
and to 10 for admins:


	shaper_rules:
	  max_user_sessions:
	    - 10: admin
	    - 5

## Several connections to a remote XMPP server with ACL

The special access `max_s2s_connections` specifies how many simultaneous
S2S connections can be established to a specific remote XMPP server. The
default value is `1`. There’s also available the access
`max_s2s_connections_per_node`.

The syntax is:

**`{ max_s2s_connections: { ACLName: MaxNumber } }`**

Examples:

-   Allow up to 3 connections with each remote server:


		shaper_rules:
		  max_s2s_connections: 3

# Shapers

Shapers enable you to limit connection traffic. The syntax is:

**`shaper: { ShaperName: Rate }`**:  where `Rate` stands for the maximum allowed incoming rate in bytes per
second. When a connection exceeds this limit, `ejabberd` stops reading
from the socket until the average rate is again below the allowed
maximum.

Examples:

-   To define a shaper named ‘`normal`’ with traffic speed limited to
	1,000bytes/second:


		shaper:
		  normal: 1000

-   To define a shaper named ‘`fast`’ with traffic speed limited to
	50,000bytes/second:


		shaper:
		  fast: 50000

