---
title: ejabberd Test Suites
menu: Testing ejabberd
order: 60
toc: true
---

ejabberd comes with a comprehensive test suite to cover various part of
the software platform.

# XMPP end-to-end protocol test suite

## Running ejabberd test suite

This test suite is a set of end-2-end integration tests that act like XMPP
clients connecting with the server and is testing ejabberd at the protocol
level.  It also contains tests for the various backends that ejabberd supports.

The test suite is modular and can be run in parts (to focus on a group
of features) or run for a specific backend.

The environment variable `CT_BACKEND` is used to specify which backend tests to
run. Current `CT_BACKENDS` values:

- mnesia. Typically, Mnesia is included in ejabberd and should
  always be available for testing.
- redis
- mysql
- pgsql
- sqlite: SQLite is a library available on many systems. However, you must have
  enabled it in ejabberd at compile time for this to work.
- ldap
- extauth

**Note:** You must build ejabberd with proper backend support for the tests to
work. If the tests fail and you aren't sure why, check the `configure` build
options to make sure you built ejabberd with adequate backend support.

**Note:** these tests are e2e tests that operate a full ejabberd instance.  So
the ports that ejabberd needs must be available for testing.  So you can't run
an ejabberd instance at the same time you test.

Other options you can use to limit the tests that will be run is to pass a list
of groups to test. Some group examples:

- no_db: Runs subgroups `generic` and `test_proxy65`.
- ldap
- mnesia
- redis
- mysql
- pgsql
- sqlite
- extauth

Usually, it is enough to just limit tests with `CT_BACKENDS` and let the test
suite decide which relevant tests to run. Sometimes you may want to only focus
on a specific backend, skipping the generic `no_db` tests.  The "groups" can be
found in `tests/ejabberd_SUITE.erl`.

Some example commands for running the XMPP end-to-end test suite are:

~~~ bash
CT_BACKENDS=mnesia rebar ct suites=ejabberd
CT_BACKENDS=mnesia rebar ct suites=ejabberd groups=mnesia
CT_BACKENDS=mnesia rebar ct suites=ejabberd groups=generic
~~~

If you have every backend configured, you can run all the tests with:

~~~ bash
make test
~~~

## Test suite conventions

The records used in test suite are autogenerated and come from
`tools/xmpp_codec.hrl`. This is handy to match packets/results against expected
values.

# Dependency tests

ejabberd depends on a lot of dependent modules. The dependencies can be tested
independently by checking them out and running their test suites directly.

# Build test status

We run tests for ejabberd and dependencies automatically via Github Actions. We
have a Dashboard available on Github to check the overall test status for all
projects: [ProcessOne Github Dashboard](https://processone.github.io/)
